Eth2 59 notes (#209)
ethereum/eth2.0-pm: eth2.0-implementers-calls/call_059.md

**Danny** - great in the numbers ran in October I think werre reducing the outputs from 11 gigabytes like half a gigabyte that's probably changed now with an additional Fork that still very significant. And this just adds in dot SOC Snappy extension rather than just SOC and we also removed the dot yaml versions of states and operations, which from our understanding and investigation in October there weren't really used by anybody. Okay, and showei what's the status on fork choice tests? Are we going to have maybe a sample of that coming out in the pre-release. 

> **Hsiao-Wei** - Yes. So currently the Piat 2202 has shown with a preview of the incoming test format and it's follow-up of Axic's previous work. I think it was discussed on the to state tests repo. So there are some differences between the previous proposal and this proposal. Mainly it's for making it more easy for high-stake to generate the test. So you can if you want to see the test vectors there example of the the get hat test and you can check the states file, which is it's kind of like a our beta configuration, but it shows us other states that the client has to check and checks is basically like the assertions like you have to check the value if it's equal to the test vectors and we have the block and attestations files in the test vector output so currently I use just attestation and participation has roots to present the file. But I'm thinking I can maybe just use the first eight bytes or like four bytes to make the filename shorter. Yeah. So if you if you have time, you can check the test vectors up to 202 and see if it would be like some drawbacks in this PR right now.And if there's no further issues, then I will first compute to get testnet for clients to try out.

Reviewer: Another Alex 😄

```suggestion
**Hsiao-Wei** - Yes. So currently the PR 2202 has shown with a preview of the incoming test format and it's follow-up of Alex Vlasov's previous work. I think it was discussed on the to state tests repo. So there are some differences between the previous proposal and this proposal. Mainly it's for making it more easy for high-stake to generate the test. So you can if you want to see the test vectors there example of the the get hat test and you can check the states file, which is it's kind of like a our beta configuration, but it shows us other states that the client has to check and checks is basically like the assertions like you have to check the value if it's equal to the test vectors and we have the block and attestations files in the test vector output so currently I use just attestation and participation has roots to present the file. But I'm thinking I can maybe just use the first eight bytes or like four bytes to make the filename shorter. Yeah. So if you if you have time, you can check the test vectors up to 202 and see if it would be like some drawbacks in this PR right now. And if there's no further issues, then I will first compute to get testnet for clients to try out.
```

# 3. Prater
Video | [26:23](https://youtu.be/s017DQlsCCw?t=1583)

**Danny** - Great. Yeah, so check that out any questions for show a or Proto on some of these test format updates. Great, and as it is a pre-release if you get into it, and there's something that totally didn't make sense in these new formats. Just let us know and we can iterate. Okay, next I want to talk about Prater a freeze on the call who has put together that PR and there's been some coordination. Although I'm not quite certain the status of launch and things like that. So afri or somebody else want to give us an update on where we stand.

> **Afr Schoe** - Yeah, sure. So I missed last call so kind of the back story was from how I understand it is we wanted to front run main-net with the test net. It has significantly more validators and we want to propose this test net project with bit more than 200,000 validators and instead of spamming the girly test networks a lot of deposits we decided to to pre-populate the Genesis with certain amount of validators and Proto was so kind to write a small go tool to generate test net canisters from a handful of seeds and this PR on the eth2 testnets repository is ready to go. So we took genesis type from the deposit contract on girly which was I don't know 11 days ago and had half a custom Genesis delays that puts it to I think next week on Wednesday, which should be the 11th or 16th of March and this is ready to be merged and I think unless anyone has any comments on that we can move on with this and look forward to Genesis next week. Yeah regarding genesis validators we have pre-populated gensis with 210,000 validators. I'm not sure where we stand regarding the regarding the just put this up here. We have a spreadsheet. I opened all the links except this one. So let's for each client teams 40K validators. We probably finished distributing the keys before the weekend, hopefully and then we can make sure that everyone is running their validators next week. I don't know Proto. Did you hand out any keys yet? 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Afr Schoe** - Yeah, sure. So I missed last call so kind of the back story was from how I understand it is we wanted to front run main-net with the test net. It has significantly more validators and we want to propose this test net project with bit more than 200,000 validators and instead of spamming the Goerli test networks a lot of deposits we decided to pre-populate the Genesis with certain amount of validators and Proto was so kind to write a small go tool to generate test net canisters from a handful of seeds and this PR on the eth2 testnets repository is ready to go. So we took genesis type from the deposit contract on Goerli which was I don't know 11 days ago and had half a custom Genesis delays that puts it to I think next week on Wednesday, which should be the 11th or 16th of March and this is ready to be merged and I think unless anyone has any comments on that we can move on with this and look forward to Genesis next week. Yeah regarding genesis validators we have pre-populated genesis with 210,000 validators. I'm not sure where we stand regarding the regarding the just put this up here. We have a spreadsheet. I opened all the links except this one. So let's for each client teams 40K validators. We probably finished distributing the keys before the weekend, hopefully and then we can make sure that everyone is running their validators next week. I don't know Proto. Did you hand out any keys yet? 
```
